	    Crap Camera, Nice Photographs
	          by Curt Sampson

Let's face it: the Lomo LC-A is a pretty crappy camera.

It's got no useful manual exposure ability, little ability to adjust
the auto-exposure (and that only very painfully anyway), can't usefully
use high-speed (above ISO 400) film, a cheap body prone to breaking, a
poor lens, poor focusing accuracy, no remote shutter release or timer
capability--the list goes on. And to top it all off, you can buy better
point and shoot cameras for a third of the price.

My first film camera was an LC-A (or "Lomo", as it's usually called). I
hardly ever use it now. These days I use an Olympus OM-4, and not only
does it take better pictures when used in automatic exposure mode, in
manual mode it lets me take much better pictures under any conditions,
and take pictures that can't be taken at all with a Lomo.

Once you become a reasonably skilled photographer, a Lomo just makes it
hard to take the photographs you want, unless you're looking only for
a certain kind of style. Not only does my OM-4 do things a Lomo can't
do, it does virtually everything that a Lomo can do: I can even buy a
lens that has similar distortion. Only my OM-4 does it more reliably.
When I want a certain "Lomo-ish" shot, I've got a much better chance
of capturing it on my OM-4 than on my Lomo. And it's not any less
spontaneous, either. With practice, the camera in manual mode becomes a
natural tool, and I adjust the settings without thinking much about it.

So why do I still feel that the Lomo has a place in the world of
photography?

It's nothing to do with the camera: it's the culture surrounding the
camera. And that culture taught me that taking a good photograph is
about more than the technicalities of framing, focus, aperture, and
shutter speed. Good technique can contribute to a good photograph, but
good technique alone produces very nice, very boring pictures suitable
mainly to demonstrate how picture frames work.

To make good photographs you can't just stand around, you need to go
out and *get* them. You have to go to different places and be prepared
to shoot the image where you find it. You've got to deal with the
conditions at hand when the opportunity comes, using the angle and the
light at hand, no matter how badly it may screw you up technically. And
you need to be brave, taking shots when you don't know if they'll work,
or sometimes even when you know that they won't work.

Once you can acquire images that capture the energy and intensity of
life, the technical qualities of the photograph matter less. That's when
you might make the trade-off on purpose, using a technically inferior
camera because you can get the images with it that you can't get with
other cameras. Eugene Smith was a master photographer and printmaker
perfectly capable of producing from large-format negatives prints that
were much better than his 35mm work. (This was back in the 40s and 50s,
too, when film wasn't of the quality it is today.) Yet when he went out
with a 35mm camera, he was able to capture images whose reach into the
subject overcame the technical inferiority. Despite being fired from
_Newsweek_ magazine for disobeying their orders not to use small-format
cameras, he continued with them because he felt that they gave him "more
freedom of seeing."

Some photographers intentionally generate technically bad images in
order to capture the true feeling of a photograph. Moriyama Daido makes
prints with huge grain and in doing so finds an interesting world in
Shinjuku that you wouldn't see on your own.

So the Lomo world taught me, with its emphasis on avoiding technical
quality and using creativity and chance, about the other side of
photography that I'd not really considered, and rounded out my approach
to taking photographs. Without learning that, I could never have become a
photographer.

I may no longer use my Lomo much, but there's a little bit of Lomo in
every photograph I take.
