Exposure/Development Process
----------------------------

This information comes from:
    http://stuffo.howstuffworks.com/film.htm/printable
    http://www.sunspotphoto.com/ssp/chemistry/
    http://www.unblinkingeye.com

1. The film is coated with silver halide in gelatin. Exposing the film
converts this silver halide in film to silver in proportion to the
amount of light it's been exposed to: more light = more silver.

(When a photon of light is absorbed by the spectral sensitizer sitting
on the surface of a silver-halide grain, the energy of an electron is
raised into the conduction band from the valence band, where it can be
transferred to the conduction band of the silver-halide-grain electronic
structure. A conduction-band electron can then go on to combine with
a positive hole in the silver-halide lattice and form a single atom
of silver. This single atom of silver is unstable. However, if enough
photoelectrons are present at the same time in the crystal lattice, they
may combine with enough positive holes to form a stable latent-image
site. It is generally felt that a stable latent-image site is at least
two to four silver atoms per grain. A silver-halide grain contains
billions of silver-halide molecules, and it only takes two to four atoms
of uncombined silver to form the latent-image site.)

2. The developer is a reducing agent that converts silver ions into
metallic server. Those grains that have latent-image sites will
develop more rapidly. With the proper control of temperature, time
and agitation, grains with latent images will become pure silver. The
unexposed grains will remain as silver-halide crystals.

Actually I think it's a bit more complex than this. Exposed grains
develop more rapidly than unexposed grains, but all will eventually
develop. So severe underdevelopment will produce an almost transparent
film, including edge numbers; severe overdevelopment will turn almost
everything black.

3. The unexposed silver-halide crystals are removed by a fixing bath.
The fixer dissolves only silver-halide crystals, leaving the silver
metal behind.

4. The negative is darkest (has the highest density of opaque silver
atoms) in the area that received the most light exposure. In places
that received no light, the negative has no silver atoms and is clear.

